# Automated Web Tests 

#### **Overview:**
The purpose of this project is to provide a testing solution for the 


#### **Technologies Used:**
* Maven: Project management and build tool.
* Java: Programing language used for test automation.
* Selenium WebDriver: Web UI testing framework.
* Docker: Tool used to build, share, and run container applications.

#### **Prerequisites:**
Ensure the following tools are installed on your machine:
* Java JDK (version 17 or higher)
* Maven
* Docker

Also, if you want to run the tests locally you will need to install the browser where the tests will run.
Currently, the framework is able to run the tests locally on Chrome, Firefox, Edge and Safari.

#### **Project Structure:**
* **src/test/java:** Java source code for test classes.
* **src/test/resources:** Features and config files.
* **pom.xml:** Maven project object model file.
* **docker-compose.yml:** Docker compose file to run the test remotely.
* **docker-compose-arm.yml:** Docker compose file to run the test remotely (for Mac with Apple Silicon chip).
* **Dockerfile:** Dockerfile to build the container where the tests will run.
* **reports:** Reports folder.
* **images:** Screenshots folder.
* **logs:** Logs generated by tests execution.

#### **Configuration:**
You can find the configuration file at **src/test/resources**.
On this file you can select the browser where the tests will be running. Currently, in local executions you can use
Chrome, Firefox, Edge and Safari. Safari is not able for remotely executions.

#### **Running the tests:**
1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/ocalderin/capitole-tests.git
```
2. Move to the folder that contains the automated tests code

3. Execute the tests (Locally)

**All the tests**
```bash
mvn clean test
```

**By feature**
```bash
mvn clean test -Dtest=com.capitole.capitoletests.runners.RunnerWebTests
```

**You can run the tests in headless mode by setting the headless parameter. The accepted values are
**true** or **false**. This value is false by default.
```bash
mvn clean test -Dheadless=true
```

Execute the tests (Remotely)
```bash
docker compose up --build --exit-code-from tests
```

If you are using a Mac with Apple Silicon chip you must use the docker-compose-arm-yml file
```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose-arm.yml up --build --exit-code-from tests
```

You can also run the automated tests on GitHub, using GitHub Actions. To do that:
1. Go to https://github.com/ocalderin/capitole-tests
2. Click on the Actions button


#### **Reporting:**
When the execution finish a report file with the test results is generated
at this path **reports/cucumber-report/web-report.html**

Also, the screenshots taken by the automated tests are saved in the folder **images**
